debt is going wild on every level you
look at what people are dealing with you
see the government as well each person
has the government's debt on their back
they don't realize it but your taxes are
going to pay off this debt and guess
what it doesn't matter how much tax you
pay 100% of your income still would not
be able to pay off that debt but we're
going to talk about where this leaves us
in the near future you can here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you we
need to talk what's the deal now not
what's the deal with Airline peanuts but
what's the deal with the debt
circumstance what's going on with the
economy we need a very in-depth look and
we're going to start by taking a look at
some of the examples of companies that
have been laying off their Workforce
there have been some of course that
large percentages
of companies that you would consider to
be sort of a household name in their
sector they are laying off a lot of
people all right whether it's Hasbro 20%
of theirs Spotify
177% Levis I mean it goes on and on
these are big companies okay
multi-billion dollar companies that
suddenly they say we've got to lay
people off now it could have been a
problem with hiring people too many in
the first place it could have been
mismanagement but we see it all
throughout all these different sectors
what happens here is that these
companies start to shed their uh
expenses and the first place they look
is the employees you've got to
understand this there's no such thing as
a company's loyalty oh we we want to
make sure that we take care of this guy
he's been with us he comes in early
every day big companies don't care small
companies different story they really
need you at least the good ones do right
um here's a circumstance we have the
elephant in the inflationary room um
this has to deal with Canada but this
video is primarily about the United
States I just thought it was interesting
to use this here for a moment despite
anticipated rate Cuts later this year
the Persistence of elevated price growth
for services is the ele is the elephant
in the inflationary room and we can see
that the statistics have been very clear
about this that inflation in prices
still going up they make that clear in
this article here but you've seen it so
the prices are still going up but where
they are just unruly is in the services
and you know that when you go to get any
service whether it's your car whe it
deals with your house somebody has got
to fix the plumbing some all of those
Services just go up and up and up and up
and that's a huge problem for you know
everybody especially when it's something
that you need something breaks and you
need to make a call and you got to you
know look online okay who do I have the
call I don't know anybody let me see
here okay that's what I'm the priceing
going to pay okay fine I need to fix
right away and this is an issue yeah you
could do certain things on your own but
you're not an expert at everything and
this is where it comes into the you know
the preparedness aspect there are
certain things that people most people
they're just oblivious to but hopefully
we can have some Basics so that we're
not relyant on everybody else all the
time okay so it just shows us that with
those Services you can see that prices
can continue to elevate and people might
get stuck paying it because if it's for
instance the air conditioner breaks down
in the middle of the summer or the
heater breaks down in the middle of the
winter there's only so much you can do
you might forego the movie theater the
restaurants uh you might not even use
your car you might just take public
transportation if that's what you need
to do but when there's something serious
you got to get it done so certain
Services they have been pushing the
envelope and it has been something uh
that has really been a strain on
people's budgets you seen that and
please let me know in the comments below
if you do agree with this prices still
up inflation still rising in that regard
but the services are where people are
getting the onew punch uh as it relates
to this US national debt on course to
double okay let me read that again US
national debt on course to double in
just8 years eight years you you think
it's bad now in eight years it's going
to be twice as high you remember eight
years ago wasn't that long ago and
imagine the debt being twice as high now
it's ridiculous of course a trillion
dollar increase every hundred days but
that is at the current trajectory we
know something about this and that it
actually gets worse over time so the
expectation should be that it will
double in less than eight
years that's that's crazy and look it's
not going to stop it's not going there's
not going to be you know you put
somebody else in place there let's get a
new president let's get a new prime
minister let's get some you know new
people in the top levels of government
and we're going to bring that debt down
no no the debt doesn't stop the debt
will always get worse and that's the
question that people you know need to
start thinking about which we'll talk
about at the end what happens here as a
result of debt going crazy
of course there are
ramifications to debt going too high
even if you are the United
States surging cost of US Government
debt interest cost control by the FED
here we have a US Treasury interest
payments crazy but they're $1.1 trillion
and that just shot up like crazy all
right now especially in the last little
while um you could see that is basically
just the hot stick gone straight up $
1.1
trillion worth okay now let me make
sense of this oh the debt doesn't
matter in a sense yes it actually does
matter a lot don't let that liar those
Liars I should say tell you that it
doesn't look at this your roads
infrastructure Healthcare everything
that you need or you know the government
is basically robbing from you to them
pay back to uh in Ser in terms of
services and things the interest gets
paid first the interest will be paid and
there's a chance that a certain service
will be cut from you in fact they do
this all the time if you look around
your Healthcare oh you know you used to
get that thing as part of healthcare
yeah we don't do that anymore let's
slice that off put it off to the side
piece by piece by piece they take it
away this has been noted in in the
Canada primarily I've seen it but of
course it's it's everywhere they slowly
but surely cut oh you know they used to
repave those roads every five years oh
then it's every six years they used to
fix the potholes every five years oh no
no now it's seven years just examples
right like these are the things that
happened but it happened so slowly that
you can't really pinpoint exactly what's
going on but this is what occurs and by
the way they spend more than they did
before but those Services although cut
them H that's what's happening here oh
the debt doesn't matter no the number
doesn't matter you can continue to add
up debt add it up add it up all the way
but know who gets the benefit of it to I
mean look look at
this $21 trillion am I reading this
correctly $21 trillion of T Bill
issuance in the past 12 months like I
had to I I had to triple check
that like the government what they do is
they basically say okay we need to spend
some money let's um you know package it
up package up our death is essentially
what they're doing and then they sell
that off to an investor okay that's kind
of the simple way to look at it we want
to spend money
money that that issuance here allows
them to pay for that okay that's how
it's done and as long as you have an
investor coming in no problem not an
issue okay there's just one problem
though and that is what happens when
there's too much of issuance that's
where this all
begins there isn't like if they did if
they were to Triple that for instance
there may not be enough appetite for it
unless they increase the interest rate
on that when they do so you're the one
who has to pay that back and so you have
to pay back with these inflated dollars
it's more expensive it's even harder to
pay this back so the longterm gets just
beaten brutally and you will then suffer
even worse later on so this does have an
issue where does like where does the
money go though well this is a breakdown
this is a breakdown yeah your taxes are
obviously going to fund the government
but it's such a small like it it there's
a shortfall despite you could literally
tax every single person the the poorest
person and the richest billionaire in
the United States everybody top to
bottom 100% of their income and it would
not pay pay everything off you
understand that every year you worked
and you paid 100% to the government
there would still be a
shortfall that is how bad the spending
is and guess what it's going to get
worse when people say that the debt is
not a
problem like you got to understand the
context okay and but overall it is wrong
that is an incorrect thing to say the
number doesn't matter okay they they
will add more debt I've acknowledged
that Social Security healthare Medicare
National Defense all the way down
looking at it all and you could see
what's happening here that we got to
understand something the there's so much
money going out in this case here the
Houston mayor says the city is broke
after Decades of overspending that
stopped them from being able to pay
firefighters oh the debts not a problem
oh yes it is because you can ask the
Houston mayor and more specifically I
should say you can ask those
firefighters we don't have enough money
we now cut services oh the Deb's not a
problem it's really stupid
okay um here we go we can see that there
are some consider this to be good news
others say that this is um terrible
because H the Federal Reserve is going
to look at this and what are they going
to do well basically what we're looking
at is the pmis okay and that's a good
indication of the economy they really
look at this one it's an important
indicator you know but it's always
moving around you look at it one month
and the next month but the trend has
been up and that means potential
bottoming out of the economy and now
we're on a growth curve though when that
does rise that could bring with it
inflation so keep that in mind and of
course the Federal Reserve would look at
this as part of all the different things
that they look at if it gets too hot
then they may want to leave interest
rates where they are instead of
increasing them again okay that's all
you need to know this is the uh the
document when when we look at pmis
there's different ones but essentially
just saying that the economy is looking
healthier than it did before that's what
you need to know from
here save me so who's going to save us
in the end well if there's too much debt
if we can't pay the bills who will come
in who will be the lender or the buyer
of Last
Resort that's right your friends at the
fed that's right the Federal Reserve
will have to come in and buy up
everything if the government issues too
much debt because they're spending too
much money because it's going out it's
like a leaky ship and there's holes
everywhere and you got to plug up all
those holes who's going to do that
Federal Reserve can do that absolutely
they can monetize that debt and in doing
so they will of course um devalue your
currency and it will become harder and
harder to just go about your daily life
that's what's happening now don't look
for the Federal Reserve to save you by
then it's already gone what you need to
do is number one go to uh if you haven't
read my books just go to my playlist
lists on YouTube and you can see tons of
free information I I would highly
recommend you doing that and of course
for those who really actually want to be
able to just say okay just let me know
what's going on I spent 2 hours every
single Friday two hours every single
Sunday and often goes beyond that where
I get into the nitty-gritty giving
people in a zoom very small Zoom classes
on each day where we get into the depths
of this all I'm talking Friday's session
we get into the finance Friday we're
looking at specific stocks we are
looking at how the actual Financial
system works I prepare a presentation
that we go through the last anywhere
between 30 minutes and about an hour
then we go Q&A all look at the charts
everything you need to know on the
Sunday session I teach people who have
already this has happened where I went
from the very beginning stages all the
way through to people actually starting
their online businesses happening now
right here and now this has been the
number one thing that where as I you
know dwindle down the amount of videos
that I'll be doing in in a little while
that I will still be doing that putting
even more attention on that so if you
want to be a part of it link is at the
top of the description the money gps.com
live I hope that you will be a part of
that we have a great group of people and
I want you to be one of those hit that
thumbs up button on the way out don't
forget to do that cuz it supports the
channel and lets the algorithm know that
this is a good video I want to see you
back here tomorrow take care